# SDDI Project

## Minutes of the Steering Committee Meeting - January 23, 2023

A meeting of the Steering Committee of the SDDI Project was held on January 23, 2023, at 3:00 pm US Eastern Time via conference call.

# Participants

* Andrew Begel
* Anita Ihuman
* Bianca Trinkenreich
* Cynthia Coupe
* Georg Link
* Gloria Chance
* John Mertic
* Kate Stewart
* Maemalynn Meanor
* Megan Lehn
* Megan Rupert
* Neal Caidin


# Call to Order

Mr. Mertic called the meeting to order at 3:05 pm US Eastern Time, and Mr. Caidin recorded the minutes. 

Mr. Mertic reviewed and reiterated the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy. Mr. Mertic presented the agenda for the meeting. 


# Review Working Group status

Mr. Mertic introduced each of the proposed working groups and asked for updates on their formation.


## Neurodiversity

Cynthia and Andrew met a few weeks ago and used the template to form their Charter, along with their notes. Plan to use a “Strengths-based approach” to neurodiversity. Included some non-goals as well as goals. 

Neurodiversity Charter (and notes):

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bnDODwftNXY7MlkaV9WE4Zj4wmB97eMGiaEgvCYXs9I/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1bnDODwftNXY7MlkaV9WE4Zj4wmB97eMGiaEgvCYXs9I/edit?usp=sharing)



* Kate: How do we find/recruit people willing to be visible for the testimonials?
* Cynthia: Perhaps through networking. 
* Gloria: the intention/ purpose of the testimonials?
* Cynthia: bring to light issues they experience for empathy and understanding. 
* Gloria: make sure that folks have the psychological strength if they have not experienced offering a testimonial before. 
* John: appropriate to have a LInkedIn across the SDDI effort? One that has the overarching themes that we can all add to. No objections. - DECISION
* Andrew - expectations for velocity? John: up to velocity of participants. 
* John:Each group set their own velocity and schedule. 
* Andrew: Yearly conference to present? Plan and converge around that? Spring in Vancouver might be a good target.
* John: Announcement of reformation of the SDDI group?
* Kate: maybe have a BoF at Vancouver.
* John: Suggests an investigation for best approach. 


## Past/Present/Future

Gloria - The Past/Present/Future Assement group not had an opportunity to meet as a group. Planning to meet this Friday. Hoping to get some of the context and history. Lost a key resource.


## Pipeline WG

Andrew: Getting folks into the pipeline for computer science. DEI focused. 

Charter:

[https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K2AIXdqVUEdJvQfkBZ9zX2s8cGSW_aj55jZOSL8Z6Bs/edit?usp=sharing](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1K2AIXdqVUEdJvQfkBZ9zX2s8cGSW_aj55jZOSL8Z6Bs/edit?usp=sharing)

* Gloria: Important to have tracking to see the impact. Tracking data for following up on progress? People coming in feel like they have a chance for success. 
* Andrew: privacy challenges. 
* John: Might have to extrapolate backwards “long tail.” 
* Kate: groups like Outreachy have been tracking. Can we build a common picture of what is effective and what is not? 
* John: check with LF Research for ideas?
* Can we leverage existing data?
* Andrew: ask hiring managers to use one of their slots for this program, rather than the general pool?
* John: running through LFX, how to fund? 
* Megan: Make sure to not reinvent/redo. How much time do people in this group have to work on these tasks. Assume 4 - 5 hours per month - 1 hour being this SDDI meeting.  [https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity](https://www.linuxfoundation.org/about/diversity-inclusivity) - find all the opportunities in one place. Combining all the opportunities into one location.
* Gloria - what is the scope of this group?
* Andrew - how do we know if we are having an impact? 
* Megan - maybe if we have those relationships with existing groups, that can be part of the process to ask candidates where they learned about the opportunities. Tracking clicks relatively easy.
* Megan - risk of not reaching the people we want to reach , rather than the same existing channels.

# Plan for Steering Committee

Mr. Mertic provided an overview as detailed in the presentation materials distributed in advance of the meeting. 

Forming the Steering Committee - How to select initial CS voting members. Initial term. 

* Kate: keep it informal. Those who show up are the SC for the first year. At some point in time there are enough working groups whose leadership can evolve into the Steering Committee at a later date.
* John: see where we are in 6 months. 

DECISION - This group meeting is the initial Steering Committee. The Steering Committee is the coordination of the working groups.

# Next Meeting

1. Mr. Mertic - need to pick a chairperson for this group. John happy to support this person. Spokesperson for the group is another role. 
2. How workgroups come in - how to formalize and document - lifecycle. 

# Cadence

Mr. Mertic provided an overview as detailed in the presentation materials distributed in advance of the meeting. 

Monthly or bi-monthly? 

DECISION: Meet monthly initially. 

4th Monday of the month?

Action: John to do a Doodle. U.S. based, but consider Europe and Asia for future. 


# Adjournment

There being no further business to come before the Steering Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 3:59 pm US Eastern Time.
