# SDDI Project


## Minutes of the Steering Committee Meeting - February 22, 2023

A meeting of the Steering Committee of the SDDI Project was held on February 22, 2023, at 3:00 pm US Eastern Time via conference call.


## Participants



* Anita Ihuman
* Bianca Trinkenreich
* Cynthia Coupe
* Georg Link
* Gloria Chance
* John Mertic
* Kate Stewart
* Maemalynn Meanor
* Megan rupert
* Neal Caidin


## Call to Order

John called the meeting to order at 3:05 pm US Eastern Time, and Bianca recorded the minutes. 

John reviewed and reiterated the Linux Foundation Antitrust Policy. John presented the agenda for the meeting. 


## Working Group readouts

Neurodiversity and Talent Pipeline WGs had no updates.

Past/current/future assessment presented their charter.



* Georg talked about the purpose of the group, which is recommendation of practices for DEIA means (Diversity Equity Inclusion and Activation). 
* The group is intended to collect data from communities using interviews and surveys to understand what went well and not in their initiatives and create a guide of best practices. The group is not intended to present problems, but instead, solutions.
* Bianca added that probably interviews will bring insights about challenges as people talk about problems when explaining their solutions, but they can be used in a future working group's project.
* Anita is interested in joining the group and asks about next meetings. Gloria informed that next meetings are going to be scheduled after approval of the plan.
* Gloria asked about resources that can be used and Kate answered the Linux Foundation Research has open access documents as interviews and surveys that can be mined.
* The group had a green light for the plan
* Created Slack channel: [https://sddiworkspace.slack.com/archives/C04QMS7USA2](https://sddiworkspace.slack.com/archives/C04QMS7USA2)


## Chairperson selection

John opened discussion for selecting a chairperson.



* Georg nominated John
* John indicated he was happy to co-chair, and suggested the other co-chair to be not a LF employee, but someone from the community
* Cynthia expressed interest in co-chairing; will connect with John next week to discuss further.
* Georg offered to be a co-chair next year (2024)


## Working group formation process

John presented a proposed process for working group formation. Attendees were generally in alignment with this process with this feedback:



* Georg suggested a process for sunsetting a WG and mentioned the working groups could be project-based, so they exist only until the deliverables are done, then new working groups are created for new projects.
* The challenge is with maintaining deliverables long term and keeping them fresh.
* We can have an “attic” approach where working groups can be determined as unmaintained until someone decides to pick up the work again

John wil follow up with a pull request for the group to review the actual policy.


## OSSNA

John presented tentative plans for OSSNA. The following feedback was received.



* The proposed half-day conflicts with CHAOSScon 
    * We have only ~4 people going to OSSNA, so a half-day event may not make sense right now.
* Bianca and Georg suggested a BoF session (for the best practices WG) as part of the Diversity Empowerment Summit to run a focus group and collect data.

John will follow up with the events team to cancel the half-day session, and John/Kate to determine who is leading the Diversity Empowerment Summit to get alignment.


## Logo Use

John indicated that there was a request from RISC-V to add the SDDI logo to their website. Feedback was:



* Once we have a relationship between projects, we can discuss the specifics
    * E.g., one project using output from other project such as a project using SDDI recommendations


## Adjournment

There being no further business to come before the Steering Committee, the meeting was adjourned at 3:52 pm US Eastern Time.
